0.5.0 beta
==========

Gimel Studio v0.5.0 beta was released "Nov. 2020"

**The v0.5.0 beta release marks close to a year of development on Gimel Studio (already!) and includes a major update to the API, Node Graph and backend.**

This involved a re-write of much of the codebase and many breaking changes both in the API and interface usage (hopefully, for the better).

.. note::
  The huge improvements in this release has some tradeoffs, though:
  The opening/saving as a Project File ability is not available (This is planned to be re-implemented again in a future release).


General
-------

 * Fixed `make` files for building from source, etc.
 * Code fixes, compatibility with Python 2 (thanks to Metallicow)


Updated Logo
------------

 * The Gimel Studio logo was updated to look more professional
 * Application icon size bug was fixed (more work needs to be done though...)


New API
-------

 * Major updates and additions to the Gimel Studio API. It can in effect, be called a new API due to the huge differences vs the old API.
 * API now combines the old Property objects and UI code so that the Properties automatically generate the UI code for the Node Property Panel. **No more need to write wxPython code unless you need a custom widget/a widget that is not provided with the API already.**
 * Improved support for overrides and more control over the look/functionality of the node itself (with the proper knowledge, of course).


Blender Addon
-------------

 * **Initial support for integration with Blender 3D was added via a bridge addon**


UI
--

 * **The interface was improved in general to be sharper, more customizable and less distracting**
 * The Light theme was dropped and the Dark theme was improved for better contrast and performance
 * Buttons toolbar options were moved to appropriate menus
 * Added toolbar to show help to the user
 * Added ability to toggle showing Image Viewport
 * Added scrollbar to Properties Panel
 * Added various menu options for controlling the application window, reading docs, etc.


Node Registry
-------------

 * The Node Registry is now in it's own popup menu (searchable list), with drag n' drop functionality


Node Graph
----------

 * **Nodes can now have more than one connection from the Output socket.** This makes a lot more sense than the limit of one-per-node before.
 * Added center node graph feature to center the Node Graph view to the center
 * Added toggle Node Graph grid background feature
 * Added button for Node Registry menu and info text in the bottom-left corner
 * Many optimizations for the Node Graph


Renderer
--------

 * The renderer code was re-factored and improved


Nodes
-----

 * Nodes were updated for the new API with the improvements that come with it. :)
 * Added 3 new core nodes: *Flip* (thanks to @iwoithe), *Invert* (thanks to @iwoithe) and *Get Channel*


Project File
------------

 * Temporarily removed.


Bug Fixes
---------

  * Fixed some long-standing issues with node connections
  * Fixed issues on Linux
