0.5.1 beta
==========

Gimel Studio v0.5.1 beta was released "Jan. 8, 2021"

**The v0.5.1 beta release was mainly a bug-fix release focused on improving stability, ui visuals, api features and overall usability**


General
-------

 * Refactoring of code
 * Icon assets were cleaned-up a bit
 * Autoformatted code with autopep8
 * Implemented automated releases with Github Actions


Updated Homepage
----------------

 * The Gimel Studio Homepage was updated at https://correctsyntax.com/projects/gimel-studio/


Dark Theme & UI
---------------

 * Dark theme was implemented for the menu bar, context menu, panels, node graph, etc
 * Various tweaks to the UI visuals including tweaks to icons, etc.


Node graph
----------

 * Added ability to change the connection to the output node via Ctrl+Left-clicking a node.


Improved Image Viewport
-----------------------

 * The Image Viewport was improved with better zoom, performace optimizations, etc.
 * Info text now updates during a render to show that the image is rendering.


Added Developer Log
-------------------

 * Added new Developer Log panel and menu item to toggle showing/hiding it. The developer log is useful for those scripting custom nodes with the Python API as it shows errors (for debugging the node).


Python API
----------

 * Fixes & improvements for Python API. Prior to these fixes, the custom node Python API did not always load new scripts.

 * Property widget visibility can now be set dynamically by setting the using the property method ``SetIsVisible`` to *True* or *False* inside the API method ``WidgetEventHook``.

  .. code-block:: python

     def WidgetEventHook(self, idname, value):
        # Set the visibility based on values of the current state
        if idname == "Method" and value == "Certian Value":
            self.prop1.SetIsVisible(False)
            self.prop2.SetIsVisible(False)
        else:
            self.prop1.SetIsVisible(True)
            self.prop2.SetIsVisible(True)

        # Update the panel with the changes of visibility
        self.RefreshPropertyPanel()


Nodes
-----

 * Some core nodes were improved/fixed to support a wider range of values.
 * Nodes now have a checkerboard background (for showing alpha-channel) and larger space between sockets and thumb preview.
 * Added **new core nodes**: *Dilate/Erode* and *Edge Detect* (thanks to @iwoithe)


Bug Fixes
---------

 * Various small fixes here and there. :)
